Ti=Terms

0.sec=This framework uses the following terms. Where terms are used without capitalization and are not otherwise defined in the [UMAcore], they are used in their normal sense.

1.Ti=Individual

1.sec=A natural person (that is, a human being) with the capacity to take on contractual duties and obligations as a participant in an UMA interaction. 
 
2.Ti=Non-Person Entity (NPE)
        
2.sec=A legal person (such as a corporation) with the capacity to take on contractual duties and obligations as a participant in an UMA interaction. 
    
3.Ti=Subject
        
3.sec=An Individual or NPE. Subjects play various roles in achieving and seeking user-managed access, and the same Subject might serve in multiple contractual roles. 
    
4.Ti=Conformance
        
4.sec=Claimed adherence of a running software program or service to the requirements of one or more of the roles "authorization server", "resource server", or "client", as defined in [UMAcore]. Software components play various roles in participating in the technical interactions necessary to achieve and seek user-managed access, and the same software component might serve in multiple technical roles. 
    
5.Ti=Authorizing Party
        
5.sec=A Subject that fills the "resource owner" role as defined in [UMAcore], using and configuring software services that variously fill the "authorization server" and "resource server" roles. This Subject is the "user" in "User-Managed Access"; UMA's first priority is to enable Individuals to serve in the Authorizing Party role, though NPEs can serve in this role as well. 
    
6.Ti=Authorization Server
        
6.sec=A software service that fills the "authorization server" role as defined in [UMAcore]. 
    
7.Ti=Authorization Server Operator
        
7.sec=A Subject responsible for running and operating an Authorization Server. 
    
8.Ti=Resource Server
        
8.sec=A software service that fills the "resource server" role as defined in [UMAcore]. 
    
9.Ti=Resource Server Operator
        
9.sec=A Subject responsible for running and operating a Resource Server. 
    
10.Ti=Client
        
10.sec=A software application or service that fills the "client" role as defined in [UMAcore]. 
    
11.Ti=Client Operator
        
11.sec=A Subject responsible for running and operating a Client. 
    
12.Ti=Requesting Party
        
12.sec=A Subject that uses a Client to seek access to a protected resource. This Subject may be an Individual or an NPE. The Requesting Party and the Authorizing Party may be the same Subject or different Subjects. 

13.Ti=Requesting Party Agent
        
13.sec=A Subject using a Client to seek access to a protected resource on behalf of a Requesting Party. Typically this Subject is an Individual acting on behalf of an NPE. 

90.Ti=Comments:

90.1.0.sec=The [UETA] defines two terms that are particularly relevant to understanding the interactions among UMA participants:

90.1.1.sec="'Automated transaction' means a transaction conducted or performed, in whole or in part, by electronic means or electronic records, in which the acts or records of one or both parties are not reviewed by an individual in the ordinary course in forming a contract, performing under an existing contract, or fulfilling an obligation required by the transaction."

90.1.2.sec="'Electronic agent' means a computer program or an electronic or other automated means used independently to initiate an action or respond to electronic records or performances in whole or in part, without review or action by an individual."

90.1.=[Z/Sec/s2]

90.2.sec=Where a Client is used by a human Requesting Party or a human Requesting Party Agent, at times human-computer interaction (HCI) will be required, but otherwise the access-attempt transaction is likely to be fully automatic from the perspective of the "requesting side". Furthermore, where the Authorizing Party and the Requesting Party are the same natural person, or where the Authorizing Party has set a policy that requires real-time approval through some out-of-band method, this person can expect to engage in HCI. Otherwise the access-attempt transaction is likely to be fully automatic from the perspective of the "authorizing side" because the access attempt is made without any requirement for the Authorizing Party to be present at run time.

90.3.0.sec=The National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace [NSTIC] defines some terms similar to those defined here:

90.3.1.sec="An individual is a person engaged in an online transaction. Individuals are the first priority of the Strategy."
    
90.3.2.sec="A non-person entity (NPE) may also require authentication in the Identity Ecosystem. NPEs can be organizations, hardware, networks, software, or services and are treated much like individuals within the Identity Ecosystem. NPEs may engage in or support a transaction."
    
90.3.3.sec="The subject of a transaction may be an individual or an NPE."

90.3.=[Z/Sec/s3]

90.4.sec=UMA shares with NSTIC a priority to enable and empower individual people in the context of their online interactions. Note that this framework uses the terms Individual, NPE, and Subject exclusively for parties that have the capacity to take on contractual obligations, distinguishing them "from hardware, networks, software, or services", which do not have this capacity.

90.=[Z/Sec/s4]

=[Z/Sec/13]